# CS-255
SNHU CS-255 System Analysis and Design

# Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass project involved designing a system for company named DriverPass. This system was envisioned by the owner of the company, Liam, and was intended to fill a gap in the market by providing students with comprehensive training designed to prepare them for their driving tests. The training offered includes on-the-road driving practice, in-person lessons, as well as online study materials and practice tests. The system that was designed included various functionalities including secure log in capabilities, role-based access, user activity tracking, reservation management, and a system for purchasing different packages for scheduling driving training. This platform was designed to be web-based and able to be access from any device while using a mainstream browser.

# What did you do particularly well?
This project definitely brought me out of my comfort zone, but I was able to adapt to the requirements each week and created artifacts that I am able to be proud of. I was very effective with my time, even while juggling a busy schedule working full time and managing home life with three kids and a wife. Using the information that I garnered each week, I carefully constructed each assignment to match the requested requirements as accurately as possible.

# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
I spent a significant amount of time working on the diagrams for each assignment that required one to be designed. The end result was always something that I was able to submit with confidence and pride, but in a professional environment, would most likely need more work to be considered fully accurate and complete. If I ever find myself in a position to create documents such as these again as part of my employment, I will use what I have learned to create diagrams that surpass the completeness that the diagrams for this project possessed. 

# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
Accurately interpreting the needs of the customer is a critical piece of creating a successful system. Once these needs have been accurately interpreted, the goal is then to provide a system that is actually capable of providing the customer with a means to answer these needs. Interpreting the needs in the DriverPass scenario involved carefully reading the transcript and analyzing what the customer was actually requesting. Each system requirement was identified in the business requirements document so that the customer was able to see how their needs would be met by the system. In a real-world scenario, asking clarifying questions and suggesting ideas will help to further the conversation and identify what is important as well as uncover details that may have been lacking.

# How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
Going forward, I would use much of what I have learned in my approach to designing software. More than likely, if I am involved in a system design in the future, I will be part of a team. The process will likely have many of the same characeristics of this project, with many more details and moving parts. Interviewing the customer and detailing the design requirements in a business requirements document is an excellent way of providing the customer with a broad description of the proposed system design. In addition, ensuring that the scope of the project is effectively defined will ensure that there is no confusion as to what is or isn't part of the overall design. Furthermore, providing the customer with easy to understand diagrams, such as what we made for the DriverPass scenario, will give the customer a chance to really understand what the system will look like.
